h1. Bootstrap Installer

p. A lightweight installation system aimed at installing any of the configured software stacks.

p. Since there is no mature cross-platform dependency / package manager, the approach used is to build specific versions of software for particular platforms from sources. 

p. Currently supported platforms are:

* OS X
* Redhat 5 / Centos 5 - any system that uses YUM

p. The system is written in two phases:
* Phase 1 - A Bash bootstrap script - assuming every system has Bash
* Phase 2 - The main installer - written in Ruby (JRuby is installed automatically)

h2. Running the installer

A suggestion. Create a new directory and copy the installer script ('bootstrap_installer') into it. The system creates (a few) files for its own use, in particular, the file 'bootstrap_installer.log' which records all changes to the system.

Obtain a copy of the bootstrap installer - a single file.

Depending on what's already installed on your system, try the following:

* wget http://dl.dropbox.com/u/12189743/InstallationFiles/common_installer/bootstrap_installer
* curl -o bootstrap_installer http://dl.dropbox.com/u/12189743/InstallationFiles/common_installer/bootstrap_installer
* vi ./bootstrap_installer and then copy-and-paste from a local copy
 
p. Then run the following commands:

<pre>
chmod a+x ./bootstrap_installer
sudo ./bootstrap_installer
</pre>

To see full help

<pre>
./bootstrap_installer -h
</pre>


h2. Source packages

p. The source package repository is currently managed on a public Dropbox for installation use.

p. The bootstrap installer files themselves are available from http://dl.dropbox.com/u/12189743/InstallationFiles/bootstrap_installer/bootstrap_installer

p. The repository can easily be copied to any desired location.

p. [To be supplied - can't rsync from Dropbox]

h2. Requirements

p. The whole reason for this bootstrap installer is - a bare minimum of requirements

p. To actually run the installer you only need

* Bash

p. The installer bootstrap then checks for the following requirements, and makes a valiant effort to install them automatically.

* Some version of gcc - at least 4.1
* Some version of curl or wget
* Some version of Java 6 (1.6.x)

h3. In detail

p. The first thing that the installer bootstrap will look for is the gcc compiler. If not present try and install the gcc compiler using the native installation tools. On OSX the Developer tools must be installed.

p. The installer bootstrap uses 'wget'. If 'wget' is not present, the installer bootstrap will try to use 'curl' to obtain 'wget'. If 'curl' is not present, then the installer bootstrap will attempt to install 'curl' using the native installation tools. 'wget' will then be installed from a source package from the installation repository. This is the only potential use of 'curl' by the installer bootstrap.

p. The installer bootstrap then looks for Java 6 (1.6.x). If 'java' is not present or is not present in the correct version, the installer bootstrap will try and install Java using the native installation tools. On OSX the Developer tools must be installed.

p. Everything else comes from the installation repository.

h2. Default Settings

p. All the default settings for the bootstrap phase are declared at the start of the file 'bootstrap_installer'. If they need to be overridden, place the values in a file 'bootstrap_installer.defaults' in the same directory as 'bootstrap_installer'. They will be loaded as the very first part of the bootstrap process if present.

p. To include custom settings for the main installer, place the file 'customSettings' in the same directory as the file 'bootstrap_installer'.

h2. Other platforms

p. This system should be easy enough to apply to any *nix version. Extend 'getLinuxPlatformType()' in the initial script 'bootstrap_installer'. Then extend the installation methods for gcc, make, curl and java. Those should be the only system-specific dependences.

h2. Components and builds

Anything installed from the source code repository is downloaded, built and remains in ${INSTALLATION_ROOT}/src. INSTALLATION_ROOT by default is /opt1. This can be changed by modifying the default settings (see above).

